Small tweaks to web vitals page (#8943)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/docs/product/performance/web-vitals.mdx

---
title: "Web Vitals"
sidebar_order: 60
description: "Understand the health of your application with Web Vitals by monitoring metrics such as render time, response time, and layout shift."
---

[Web Vitals](https://web.dev/vitals/) are a set of metrics defined by Google to measure render time, response time, and layout shift. Each data point provides insights about the overall [performance](/product/performance/) of your application.

> The in-browser Sentry SDKs collects web vitals information (where supported) and adds that information to frontend [transactions](product/performance/transaction-summary/). These web vitals are then summarized in several graphs for a quick overview of how each frontend transaction is performing for your users.

Author: ```suggestion
The in-browser Sentry SDKs collects web vitals information (where supported) and adds that information to frontend [transactions](/product/performance/transaction-summary/). These web vitals are then summarized in several graphs for a quick overview of how each frontend transaction is performing for your users.
```

> The in-browser Sentry SDKs collects web vitals information (where supported) and adds that information to frontend [transactions](/product/performance/transaction-summary/). These web vitals are then summarized in several graphs for a quick overview of how each frontend transaction is performing for your users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The in-browser Sentry SDKs collect web vitals information (where supported) and adds that information to frontend [transactions](/product/performance/transaction-summary/). These web vitals are then summarized in several graphs for a quick overview of how each frontend transaction is performing for your users.
```

![Visualization of Web Vitals](./diagram-transaction-vitals.png)

## Core Web Vitals

> Core Web Vitals are called this because they're considered to be the most important by Google and directly measure the user experience. According to a May, 2021 [Google blog post](https://developers.google.com/search/blog/2020/11/timing-for-page-experience), these metrics also impact your search ranking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Google considers Core Web Vitals to be the most important metrics for measuring the user experience on web pages. According to a May 2021 [Google blog post](https://developers.google.com/search/blog/2020/11/timing-for-page-experience), these metrics also impact your search ranking.
```

### Largest Contentful Paint (LCP)

> [Largest Contentful Paint, (LCP)](https://web.dev/lcp/) measures how long it takes for the content that covers the largest pixel area in the viewport to render - in other words, how long before a user sees the main content on a page. This content may take any form from the document object model (DOM), such as an image, SVG, or text block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Largest Contentful Paint (LCP)](https://web.dev/lcp/) measures how long it takes for the content that covers the largest pixel area in the viewport to render - in other words, how long before a user sees the main content on a page. This content may take any form from the document object model (DOM), such as an image, SVG, or text block.
```
I don't think you need the extra comma there. They're not used in the google dev docs either (https://web.dev/articles/lcp)

### First Input Delay (FID)

> [First Input Delay, (FID)](https://web.dev/fid/) measures response time when a user tries to interact with the viewport by clicking a button, link, or any other custom JavaScript controller. FID data is critical for understanding whether interactions on an application page are successful or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[First Input Delay (FID)](https://web.dev/fid/) measures response time when a user tries to interact with the viewport by clicking a button, link, or any other custom JavaScript controller. FID data is critical for understanding whether interactions on an application page are successful or not.
```

### Cumulative Layout Shift (CLS)

> [Cumulative Layout Shift, (CLS)](https://web.dev/cls/) is the sum of individual layout shift scores for every unexpected element shift that happens during the rendering process. An example of this would be trying to click a link on a page that hasn't finished loading and having that link shift down before you've had a chance to click on it due to image rendering issues. The CLS web vital score isn't based on duration. It represents the extent of the disruptive and visually unstable shifts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Cumulative Layout Shift (CLS)](https://web.dev/cls/) is the sum of individual layout shift scores for every unexpected element shift that happens during the rendering process. An example of this would be trying to click a link on a page that hasn't finished loading and having that link shift down before you've had a chance to click on it due to image rendering issues. The CLS web vital score isn't based on duration. It represents the extent of the disruptive and visually unstable shifts.
```

## Other Web Vitals

The below Web Vitals are generally less visible to users, but are useful for troubleshooting issues with the Core Web Vitals.

### First Paint (FP)

> First Paint, (FP) measures the amount of time it takes for the first pixel to appear in the viewport. This may be in any form from the document object model (DOM), including background color, canvas, or image. FP helps developers understand if anything unexpected is happening during page-rendering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First Paint (FP) measures the amount of time it takes for the first pixel to appear in the viewport. This may be in any form from the document object model (DOM), including background color, canvas, or image. FP helps developers understand if anything unexpected is happening during page-rendering.
```

### First Contentful Paint (FCP)

> [First Contentful Paint, (FCP)](https://web.dev/fcp/) measures the amount of time it takes for the first content to render in the viewport. This may be in any form from the document object model (DOM), including images, SVGs, or text blocks. FCP frequently overlaps with First Paint (FP). FCP helps developers understand how long it takes before the user sees any content change on the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[First Contentful Paint (FCP)](https://web.dev/fcp/) measures the amount of time it takes for the first content to render in the viewport. This may be in any form from the document object model (DOM), including images, SVGs, or text blocks. FCP frequently overlaps with First Paint (FP). FCP helps developers understand how long it takes before the user sees any content change on the page.
```

### Time To First Byte (TTFB)

> [Time To First Byte, (TTFB)](https://web.dev/time-to-first-byte/) measures the amount of time it takes for a user's browser to receive the first byte of page content. TTFB helps developers understand whether slowness is caused by the initial response or is due to render-blocking content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Time To First Byte (TTFB)](https://web.dev/time-to-first-byte/) measures the amount of time it takes for a user's browser to receive the first byte of page content. TTFB helps developers understand whether slowness is caused by the initial response or is due to render-blocking content.
```

## Web Vitals Page

> The **Web Vitals** page nested under the **Performance** page, gives you an overview of your page load performance for the selected project(s). You can use this page as a starting point to investigate poor Web Vitals affecting your web application and drill down to better understand which pages are affecting your web performance the most.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Web Vitals** page, nested under the **Performance** page, gives you an overview of your page load performance for the selected project(s). You can use this page as a starting point to investigate poor Web Vitals affecting your web application and drill down to better understand which pages are affecting your web performance the most.
```

## Performance Score

**Performance Score** is a rating from 0 to 100 that summarizes the perceived performance of your web application. Each page load on your web application that gets sent to Sentry is scored based on its **Web Vitals**. These scores are aggregated to provide a score for each of your pages and an overall score for your application.

> The **Performance Score** is comprised of 5 individual **Web Vital** components. Each **Web Vital** is given a rating from 0 to 100 through a [Log-Normal Distribution](https://www.desmos.com/calculator/o98tbeyt1t). Each **Web Vital** rating is given a weight, which is summed up to create the overall **Performance Score** with a maximum value of 100. Some browsers may not support all the **Web Vitals** used in Sentry's **Performance Score** calculation, so weights are dynamically adjusted depending on which **Web Vitals** are available on a page load. The default weight, and the p90 and p50 distribution values for each **Web Vital** can be found in the table below.

Author: ```suggestion
The **Performance Score** is comprised of 5 individual **Web Vital** components. Each **Web Vital** is given a rating from 0 to 100 through a [Log-Normal Distribution](https://www.desmos.com/calculator/o98tbeyt1t). Each **Web Vital** rating is given a weight, which is summed up to create the overall **Performance Score** with a maximum value of 100. Some browsers may not support all the **Web Vitals** used in Sentry's **Performance Score** calculation, so weights are dynamically adjusted depending on which **Web Vitals** are available on a page load. The default weight as well as the p90 and p50 distribution values for each **Web Vital** can be found in the table below.
```
